Identity and Access Management, or IAM,
is the core security construct for all AWS services.
The core components are policies, users, groups, and roles.
At a basic level, policies define what actions can or cannot be taken.
You can then assign policies to users, groups,
and roles to manage account permissions.
When you create an IAM user,
you can decide what credentials you want to allow for that user.
You can allow a username and password for console access,
as well as AWS access keys for programmatic access.
You can also configure an MFA device for the user or
require them to set one up when they log in.
As an IAM user administrator, you can disable or reset passwords,
as well as generate, deactivate, or delete AWS access keys.
You may also use AWS Security Token Service,
or STS, to request temporary limited privilege credentials for IAM users.
These tools can help you manage user access as your organization
changes or if a user account is compromised.
An IAM role is similar to an IAM user in that it is an AWS identity with a name
and policies to determine what actions it can and cannot do.
However, roles do not have permanent credentials,
and they cannot make direct requests to AWS services.
IAM roles are meant to delegate access to a trusted entity without
having to share long‑term access keys with that entity.
When a trusted entity assumes a role,
that entity gains a temporary ability to perform actions authorized by the role.
For database services that are instance‑based,
you'll be working with instances inside of a Virtual Private Cloud,
or VPC.
Security groups belong to a VPC and are assigned to
instances as a virtual firewall to control inbound and
outbound traffic for that instance.
You can use the same security group in different subnets in the same VPC,
and the same subnet can also have different security groups.
If you're using instance‑based databases,
there are several networking components involved to
get traffic to your instances,
so let's do a brief overview so you understand what is involved.
First, you'll have an internet or VPN gateway.
Next, a router and a route table, followed by a network access control list.
Finally, you'll reach the security group and your instance.
For finer‑grained control of instance access,
you'll likely use a combination of security groups
and network access control lists.
Let's compare the two.
Security groups operate on the instance level,
whereas network access control list is on these subnet level.
One provides allow rules, while the other can provide both allow and deny rules.
Security groups will evaluate all rules before allowing traffic,
whereas NACLs have rules processed in numeric order.
A security group is stateful,
meaning that return traffic is automatically allowed regardless of any rules,
whereas your NACL is stateless and return traffic
must be explicitly allowed by rules.
A security group applies to an instance only if it is
associated with that security group,
whereas your NACL automatically applies to all instances
in the subnets associated with the NACL, so you can't
accidentally forget to assign it.
Way to go.
You've seen how AWS Key Management Service helps you maintain
encryption keys for encrypting your data.
You've also seen how CloudTrail, Web Application Firewall,
and GuardDuty can help with account auditing and avoiding vulnerabilities.
Finally,
you saw some additional ways you can manage security
including IAM users and roles, security groups,
and network controls.
Great job completing this course.
You now have a better understanding of the different AWS
database services and the roles and responsibilities to
consider as a database specialist. I hope you found this valuable, and thank you for watching.